+++
title = "Blog #8: Progress as of 2022-03-19 (Symposium Week)"
updated = 2022-03-22

[taxonomies]
tags = ["general"]
+++

A general summary of project progress as of March 19th, 2022.
This week was symposium!

<!-- more -->


## Software
### Firmware
[GCode macros](https://www.klipper3d.org/G-Codes.html#gcode_macro) were added to
control the turn and tilt axes automatically. Unfortunately, the commands could
not be synced together and performed in parallel due to a
[bug](https://github.com/Klipper3d/klipper/issues/5093) with multi-mcu support
for this function.

### Slicer
Since the open source slicer named Slicer4RTN could only slice a part at one
angle only, an alternate strategy needed to be devised to showcase the full
functionality of the system. As a proof of concept, a part could be broken down
to several subparts manually to be sliced in the appropriate angles. Then the
appropriate turn and tilt could be added in between to piece the subparts
together.

### Slicer/Firmware Integration
We also attempted to print a shape that would require multiple tilt and turn
movements during the print. The gif below is a visualization of the GCode of the
subparts, which have been sliced at different angles and pieced back together to
form the part.

![Multi-Sliced Stair](/media/2022-03-19/Stair.gif)

However the print result was never perfect. To print the part successfully
involved manually writing out the turn and tilt compensation movements for each
subpart (and verifying that the xyz compensation was successful, or else
manually modifying that too). Then, the coordinates the printer thought the
extruder was at had to be reset. This aligned the end position of the nozzle for
the previous subpart and the start position of nozzle for the next subpart, but
not with high enough accuracy. When the printer restarted printing, the next
subpart was not perfectly aligned.


The following gif shows the print that resulted from manual alignment.

![Manual Staircase Print](/media/2022-03-19/staircase-print.gif)

And this one shows the alignment of the first transition in the print.

![Automatic Staircase Transition 1](/media/2022-03-19/part1-transition.gif)

Then, the second transition in the print.

![Automatic Staircase Transition 2](/media/2022-03-19/part2-transition.gif)

And here you can see the clear misalignment once it starts printing.

![Automatic Staircase Misalignment](/media/2022-03-19/staircase-misalignment.gif)

## Electrical
STM32CubeIDE was used to configure the pins and run preliminary tests for the
functionality of all the peripherals. A blinking Test LED was used to indicate
when the program was running. The motor controllers and PWM control of the fans
were the primary options tested and were able to effectively drive and control
the speed of each of those respectively. Other peripherals were GPIOs that were
confirmed to connect to their respective pins properly, but more detailed
testing was planned when the proper functionality was added through the
firmware.

However, a problem that we ran into when trying to run the Klipper firmware was
that the USB is functional when set up and programmed from the STM32CubeIDE, but
does not work when the Klipper firmware is loaded. We did not have the time to
properly debug the reasons why, especially with the volume of code that makes up
Klipper, so instead we resorted to running Klipper on a Raspberry Pi which would
drive two separate Ender 3 motor controllers in order to add the additional
stepper motor and limit switch functionality we needed.

## Symposium
Setup went relatively smoothly, though the staircase print was still misaligned
more often than not. Thus, we decided to simply print the MTE block over the
course of the symposium instead. This was also great because the shape was
pretty exciting to look at and all the people seemed pretty impressed by it.

![Symposium Station](/media/2022-03-19/symposium.png)
