+++
title = "Blog #7: Progress as of 2022-03-12 (Demo Week)"
updated = 2022-03-22

[taxonomies]
tags = ["general"]
+++

A general summary of project progress as of March 12th, 2022. This week was our
demonstration to our professors, which happened on Wednesday, March 9th. The
plan was to visually showcase the completed system, movement of the printhead
and possibly a print demo if time allowed.

<!-- more -->

## Software
### Slicer
An open source slicer named Slicer4RTN is used to generate the GCode. It is
built on top of multiple slicers like Slic3r and CuraEngine and additional
logics to generate GCodes for 3D printers with Rotating Tilted Nozzle(RTN),
which is a 4-axis printer. It has the functionality of slicing parts at the
angles requested. Below are gif showing several sliced parts at a 45° angle.

![Sliced 45° Part with Overhang](/media/2022-03-12/SlantedOverhang.gif)

## Electrical
The PCBs did not arrive in time for the demo itself, but they arrived a few days
later. From there, some preliminary testing would begin. From the first
inspection, there did not seem to be any issues with the boards. The power rails
for 24V, 5V and 3.3V were all functional, though the 5V rail was instead at
4.6V. However, since there aren’t many 5V components on the board, especially
with digital logic, this discrepancy is not an issue. The motor controllers were
also configured with a reference voltage set at 0.96V to limit the stepper motor
current to 1.2A.

![PCB](/media/2022-03-12/PCB.jpg)

## System Functionality at the Demo
The general functionality of the system was working by the demo date, though we
did not have time to configure for a more complex print beside a standard test
overhang print.

The gif below shows the first successful supportless 90 degree print from our 3D
printer, something that would not be possible with a standard 3D printer.

![90° Overhang](/media/2022-03-12/90deg-overhang.gif)

Additionally, the below gif shows the movement demonstration that was shown on
the day of the demo. It consists of each of the Tilt and Turn axes moving on
their own as well as together.

![Moving Turn & Tilt Axes](/media/2022-03-12/Movement.gif)
